[Music]
all right yall have waited patiently for
this once again this year we've run our
blind smartphone camera test scientific
style you know we always think we know
what the absolute best smartphone
cameras are but do we actually know like
what if we wanted an objective answer
straight from Real World data literally
every time I review a phone there's some
people in the comment section saying oh
I you know iPhone photos are the only
good ones or I only like pixel photos or
you know Samsung is the only one who
does good portrait mode but what if we
put that to the test what if we took a
bunch of the best smartphone cameras on
the planet and took them out into the
real world and took the exact same photo
with each and every one of them and then
strip them of all their labels and then
had you the public vote on which one's
photos you like the best that should
reveal the best actual smartphone camera
so that's exactly what we did this year
we took these 20 smartphones updated all
of their software charged them all up
got their batteries to 100% then we went
out and took this same three photos with
each one one daytime photo one low light
photo and one portrait mode photo yes it
is surprisingly hard to stay perfectly
still for 20 identical photos to be
taken in a row but I did it for you then
we had to go in and import all the
photos from every single smartphone
camera Harder Than You Think strip them
of all their exf data and then upload
them to a site that we've built that
lets us put them side by side for you
guys to vote on head-to-heads millions
and millions and millions of times which
you did that should give us a
statistically significant winner and
loser we'll get to that and the results
this year were kind of interesting a
little bit I almost didn't make this
video but I can tell people have been
waiting the competitive tension is high
and the actual results might be a little
surprising to some of you so let's get
into it so the data our site spits out
all comes in these text files with
matchup ratings for every single
combination of smartphones we actually
had them coded by letters of the
alphabet you can see a through T but
that little number number that one right
here is the most important that is the
ELO rating you know the system that
ranks chess players or tennis players
basically anything head-to-head with
enough matchup information we can sort
of sort through all these letters based
on who they beat and who they lose to
and creative Power Rankings and that
will give us our winners so the question
you probably all want to know who were
the winners and so we'll go we'll go
category by category because like I said
there were three different scenarios
daytime low light and portrait mode so
let's go one by one so daytime for the
regular daylight photos we kind of had
it set up with just me sitting in front
of this window here but there's a lot to
this photo the strongest light is from
inside the room but then the window
light is actually a good test of dynamic
range and then there's also a variety of
colors there's my skin tone there's the
orange chair next to the blue Pillow a
few other things this is on purpose
there's no individual variable that can
dominate this test so every single phone
we try to frame the exact same way way
from the exact same spot holding one of
them up as a reference so we can get as
close as possible and everything is
fully auto we just open the camera app
make sure the lens is clean and just hit
the shutter button we don't even tap to
focus just point and shoot it takes
about 6 minutes to go through all 20
phones like I said it's kind of hard to
sit still for 6 minutes straight but we
did it so for this regular daylight
photo situation the winner with the
highest ELO
rating is the pixel
7A that's pretty impressive so this this
is the photo that you guys for the most
part voted as the winner in most of its
matchups pretty neutral photo to be
honest not too bright not too dark
pretty excellent dynamic range and it's
also not a fluke because the second
highest ELO rating came from the pixel
fold so the fold took a very similar
photo and then finishing up on the
podium was the OnePlus open one of those
high-end folding phones so I will say my
personal favorite photo and the one that
actually won for me when I blind tested
myself was this one this is the fourth
highest ELO rating this is the OnePlus
11 it's definitely a little on the
contras your side but a little more
confident with nailing the exposure and
having dynamic range nevertheless it's
definitely interesting here a lot of
people pointed out that the sun behind
me you know looked a little different in
each photo it might have been setting so
the background was a little different
which is a little bit true but it wasn't
late enough in the day for that to
actually affect the photo I think the
fact that the 7A is the only one with
this little lens flare is actually just
a coincidence and then fun fact in dead
last with the absolute bottom lowest ELO
rating for this daytime
photo is the iPhone 15 Pro not a
terrible photo I mean you can't really
get a horrible photo in normal looking
lighting for most of the smartphones but
when you put it up against the others
it's mostly just the darkest one and so
when you put it up side by side against
these much brighter photos people just
picked the brighter one almost every
single time funnily enough though you
can absolutely overexpose for this
competition as the second lowest ELO
rating belongs to the Galaxy s23 Ultra
for producing this weirdly Overexposed
Masterpiece so here are all the photos
side by side with their ELO ratings feel
free to pause it if you'd like to make
some more observations but let's move on
to the nighttime photos so low light low
light is a much more challenging shot
for a smartphone camera especially with
a tiny sensor and Tiny Optics trying to
take in as much light as possible but
you know computational photography has
come a long way and even in this pretty
dark rooftop where the only light source
was like 40 ft away from me these
cameras still manag to do a good job and
if you're ready for the plot twist the
highest overall ELO rating for the low
light photo comes from dead last from
the daylight photo it is again the
iPhone 15 Pro with another totally
reasonable photo now following it very
closely in second place was the pixel 8
Pro and actually the pixel 7A coming in
third and to be honest I fully agree
with all of these it's kind of it's
starting to get ridiculous how much some
of the other smartphone cameras started
to pump up the light like literally the
second you get outside the top four you
get straight into bad HDR territory like
this is the this is the fifth place
photo from s23 Ultra which is definitely
too bright and also you can see this
little HDR haloe effects starting to
show up around my head and then if you
scroll all the way down to the Oppo X6
Pro just my God what happened like these
cameras are going nuts it looks like in
this one they literally painted sloppily
over me and just dragged up the exposure
matter of
fact yep see that's exactly what it
looks like the Zen phone did this too
along with a few others and I honestly
think the OnePlus open not only made me
brighter but then it also identified the
sky and made the sky darker which just
then starts to look look ridiculous I
mean real life looked nothing like this
so here are all the nighttime photos and
their ELO ratings pause it if you need
it and now we can move to the last but
not least category portrait mode so
portrait mode kind of turns out to be
the hardest test like this to run
because they all kind of do portrait
mode a little bit differently if you
just open the camera app and switch to
portrait mode some of them do 2x some of
them are 3x some of them say 1X but
they're actually like 1.5x it's kind of
weird so we tried to just keep it simple
for this test and just open the camera
app switch to portrait mode and then
move our feet forward or backward to try
to match the focal length with all of
these shots it kind of worked and you
know they all kind of also have
different Boca levels some of them are
adjustable some of them aren't but like
I said we're just going with the default
the point and shoot that most people
will get when they do it and the
portrait mode point and shoot winner
with the highest ELO rating is the pixel
8 Pro this was followed pretty closely
by Samsung Z fold 5 which I actually
think had a better cutout and then the
Third highest ELO here was the iPhone 15
Pro which I think had the most natural
looking blur but basically all of these
Podium finishers have relatively subtle
portrait modes nothing too dramatic and
then pretty good detail and overall
balance in just the rest of the photo I
say this because the losers here in this
particular category were nothing like
this they were some of the wonkiest
weirdest photos in the entire
competition and the loser with the
absolute lowest ELO rating for this
category and actually in any category
was the Sony Xperia 1 Mark 5 with this
photo with that that's the photo like
okay this this one looks like a mistake
we all actually thought it was a mistake
as we shot it like this can't possibly
be right right we clean the lens we take
it again it does it again and then it
did it again and again so I mean I guess
for whatever reason this $1,200 Android
flagship phone in its Auto Port portrait
mode just could not handle this lighting
it had some weird issues anyway here's
all of the portrait mode photos and
their ELO ratings you're welcome I'd
like to give out some awards now that we
have all of our matchup data and all of
our voting and all of our ELO ratings
from across every single person for what
you guys voted for for more than 20
million total votes there's some pretty
interesting stuff here so we have our
winners and losers in each of the three
categories which is cool but if you
average it all together we have have the
highest overall average ELO rating we'll
call this one the people's champ and
with the highest average of 1660 that's
pretty
competitive it was the pixel 7A so this
one won the daytime photo as you
probably remember but then it also came
in third place in the nighttime photo
and fourth place of all 20 in the
portrait mode photo so that's pretty
strong but here's the kicker the second
highest average ELO
rating was the pixel 8 Pro and the third
highest average ELO rating again this is
your
votes is the pixel fold so pixel pixel
pixel it's a perfect pixel Podium so
here you can see the whole list from top
to bottom the three pixels at the top
surprisingly in Reverse price order and
then bringing up the rear for total ELO
is the Sony xer 1 Mark 5 and the xiaomi
13 Ultra then I also had to bring back
the bang for the buck award which I did
this last year also it's basically just
most votes from you guys divided by MSRP
at launch so most votes per dollar
basically and so your winner again is
going to be the pixel 7A this was a
phone that launched right around 500
bucks it did incredible on the tests but
in second place in votes per dollar is
the nothing phone 2 it's a pretty good
performing phone and it actually
launched like upper mid-range price so
this is a good phone bang for the buck
wise and then in 3A 3B right next to
each other under underneath these two
you have the OnePlus 11 and the zenphone
10 and then impressively actually the
Sony is not dead last in this category
it is expensive and it did perform
horribly but not worse bang for the buck
wise than a super expensive folding
phone the Z flip 5 overall average uh
did worse for the dollar the more you
know so what did we learn with all this
well I'll leave you with this first of
all the pixels killed it they had the
123 finish they're great bang for the
buck it was weird that they're in RSE
price order but fine but also there's a
lot more to a smartphone camera of
course than just a sitting down staged
photo of a person we learned a little
bit about how it shoots my skin tones
there's a whole bunch of other things
you might care about from autofocus
speed to the UI to the actual file
format how editable it is to videos like
there's a there's a bunch more to it but
at the end of the day I think we were
still pretty not shocked by the slightly
brighter photos being the slightly less
bright photos
and maybe we'll run it back again next
year and learn something new either way
thanks for watching this one catch you
guys next time
[Music]
peace